Image Registry Config Override (#2438)
spectrocloud/librarium: docs/docs-content/clusters/pcg/manage-pcg/registry-override.md

---
sidebar_label: "Override Registry Configuration"
title: "Override Registry Configuration"
description: "Learn how to override the image registry configuration for a Private Cloud Gateway (PCG) in Palette."
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 60
tags: ["pcg"]
---

> You can override the image registry configuration for a Private Cloud Gateway (PCG) to use a custom image registry for
> the PCG cluster. This feature is useful when you want to use a custom image registry to store and manage the images used

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can override the image registry configuration for a Private Cloud Gateway (PCG) to use a custom image registry. This feature is useful when you want to use a custom image registry to store and manage the images used
```

Reviewer: _for the PCG cluster_ seems a bit redundant in terms of copy because you mention it in the following sentence, but if it's essential to the technical context, makes sense to keep it 🙌🏻

by the PCG cluster. The image registry configuration is applied to the PCG cluster and is used to pull the required
images for the PCG cluster.

## Prerequisites

> Before you override the image registry configuration for a PCG, ensure you have the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before overriding the image registry configuration for a PCG, ensure you have the following:
```

- An active PCG cluster. Refer to [Deploy a PCG](../deploy-pcg/deploy-pcg.md) to learn how to deploy a PCG.

- Access to the kubeconfig file for the PCG cluster. You need the kubeconfig file to access the PCG cluster and apply
  the image registry configuration.

  :::tip

>   You can download the kubeconfig file from the PCG cluster details page in Palette. Navigate to the PCG cluster details
>   page. Click on the **Admin Kubeconfig** link to download the kubeconfig file. If you need help with configuring
>   kubectl to access the PCG cluster, refer to the [Access Cluster with CLI](../../cluster-management/palette-webctl.md)
>   guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  You can download the kubeconfig file from the PCG cluster details page in Palette:
  - Navigate to the PCG cluster details
  page and click on the **Admin Kubeconfig** link to download the kubeconfig file.
  
  If you need help with configuring
  kubectl to access the PCG cluster, refer to the [Access Cluster with CLI](../../cluster-management/palette-webctl.md)
  guide.
```

Reviewer: Just a thought, but we could structure this as a one-step procedure, in which case we just go with a bullet point. I'm using the Microsoft Style Guide as reference here ([Single-step procedures](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/procedures-instructions/writing-step-by-step-instructions#single-step-procedures)), so it's absolutely optional

  :::

- Access to a terminal session that has network access to the PCG cluster.

- The kubectl command-line tool installed on your local machine. Refer to the
  [kubectl installation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/) guide to learn how to install kubectl.

## Override Image Registry Configuration

> Use the following steps to override the image registry configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: This sentence might be redundant, since it mirrors the heading 🤔

1. Open a terminal session.

2. Create an empty YAML file with the name **registry-secret.yaml**. Use the following command to create the file.

   ```shell
   touch registry-secret.yaml
   ```

> 3. Open the **registry-secret.yaml** file and copy the placeholder configuration below. Check the table below for a
>    description of each parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Open the **registry-secret.yaml** file and copy the placeholder configuration below. Check the table below for a
   description of each parameter.
```

Reviewer: My thinking is, we don't need to say this in step three because it naturally follows in step four

   :::

4. Replace the placeholder values with the actual values for your custom image registry. Refer to the table below for a
   description of each parameter.

   | Parameter           | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Required |
   | ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------- |
   | `DOMAIN`            | The domain of the custom image registry.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | Yes      |

>    | `BASE_PATH`         | The base path of the custom image registry.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Yes      |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   | `BASE_PATH`         | The base path to the custom image registry.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Yes      |
```

   | `USERNAME`          | The username to authenticate with the custom image registry. If the custom image registry does not require authentication, you can leave this field empty.                                                                                                                                                    | No       |
   | `PASSWORD`          | The password to authenticate with the custom image registry. If the custom image registry does not require authentication, you can leave this field empty.                                                                                                                                                    | No       |

>    | `INSECURE`          | Set to `true` if the custom image registry uses an insecure connection or self-signed certificate. Set to `false` if the custom image registry uses a secure connection.                                                                                                                                      | Yes      |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   | `INSECURE`          | Set to `true` if the custom image registry uses an insecure connection or a self-signed certificate. Set to `false` if the custom image registry uses a secure connection.                                                                                                                                      | Yes      |
```

>    | `CA_CERT`           | The Certificate Authority of the custom image registry in PEM format. Required if the custom image registry uses a self-signed certificate.                                                                                                                                                                   | No       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   | `CA_CERT`           | The Certificate Authority of the custom image registry in the PEM format. Required if the custom image registry uses a self-signed certificate.                                                                                                                                                                   | No       |
```

>    | `MIRROR_REGISTRIES` | A comma-separated list of mirror registries in [image swap format](https://github.com/phenixblue/imageswap-webhook/blob/master/docs/configuration.md) to use for pulling images. For example: `docker.io::public.ecr.aws/1234567/airgap-images/docker.io,gcr.io::public.ecr.aws/1234567/airgap-images/gcr.io` | Yes      |

Reviewer 2: @karl-cardenas-coding - since we have all this kind of URLS in our repo, may be create this example as full 

docker.io::harbor.example.org/airgap-images/docker.io,gcr.io::harbor.example.org/airgap-images/gcr.io,ghcr.io::harbor.example.org/airgap-images/ghcr.io,k8s.gcr.io::harbor.example.org/airgap-images/gcr.io,registry.k8s.io::harbor.example.org/airgap-images/k8s.io,quay.io::harbor.example.org/airgap-images/quay.io,us-east1-docker.pkg.dev::harbor.example.org/airgap-images

>    | `MIRROR_REGISTRIES` | A comma-separated list of mirror registries in [image swap format](https://github.com/phenixblue/imageswap-webhook/blob/master/docs/configuration.md) to use for pulling images. For example: `docker.io::public.ecr.aws/1234567/airgap-images/docker.io,gcr.io::public.ecr.aws/1234567/airgap-images/gcr.io` | Yes      |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   | `MIRROR_REGISTRIES` | A comma-separated list of mirror registries in the [image swap format](https://github.com/phenixblue/imageswap-webhook/blob/master/docs/configuration.md) to use for pulling images. For example: `docker.io::public.ecr.aws/1234567/airgap-images/docker.io,gcr.io::public.ecr.aws/1234567/airgap-images/gcr.io` | Yes      |
```

    <details>
    <!-- prettier-ignore -->
    <summary>Click here for a complete example configuration.</summary>

   ```yaml
   ---
   apiVersion: v1
   stringData:
     DOMAIN: "harbor.example.org"
     BASE_PATH: "airgap-images"
     USERNAME: ""
     PASSWORD: ""
     INSECURE: "false"
     CA_CERT: ""
     MIRROR_REGISTRIES: docker.io::harbor.example.org/airgap-images/docker.io,gcr.io::harbor.example.org/airgap-images/gcr.io,ghcr.io::harbor.example.org/airgap-images/ghcr.io,k8s.gcr.io::harbor.example.org/airgap-images/gcr.io,registry.k8s.io::harbor.example.org/airgap-images/k8s.io,quay.io::harbor.example.org/airgap-images/quay.io,us-east1-docker.pkg.dev::harbor.example.org/airgap-images
   kind: Secret
   metadata:
     name: registry-info
     namespace: jet-system
   type: Opaque
   ---
   ```

    </details>

> 5. Once you have created the YAML file and configured the parameter values. Issue the following command to create the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Once you have created the YAML file and configured the parameter values, issue the following command to create the
```

   Kubernetes secret containing the image registry configuration.

   ```shell
   kubectl create --filename registry-secret.yaml
   ```

## Validate

> Use the following steps to validate the image registry configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: Same reasoning as with the _Override Image Registry Configuration_ header :)

> 1. Open a terminal session that has network access to the PCG cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Open a terminal session with a network access to the PCG cluster.
```

2. Configure kubectl to use the kubeconfig file for the PCG cluster. Use the following command to configure kubectl.
   Refer to the [Access Cluster with CLI](../../cluster-management/palette-webctl.md) for guidance on configuring
   kubectl.

3. Issue the following command to verify that the secret containing the image registry configuration is created.

   ```shell
   kubectl get secret registry-info --namespace=jet-system  \
   --output jsonpath='{.data.MIRROR_REGISTRIES}' | base64 --decode
   ```

   The command returns the mirror registries that you configured in the `MIRROR_REGISTRIES` parameter.

   ```shell hideClipboard
   docker.io::harbor.example.org/airgap-images/docker.io,gcr.io::harbor.example.org/airgap-images/gcr.io,ghcr.io::harbor.example.org/airgap-images/ghcr.io,k8s.gcr.io::harbor.example.org/airgap-images/gcr.io,registry.k8s.io::harbor.example.org/airgap-images/k8s.io,quay.io::harbor.example.org/airgap-images/quay.io,us-east1-docker.pkg.dev::harbor.example.org/airgap-images
   ```

> 4. Deploy a cluster through Palette. The PCG will propagate the image registry configuration to the workload cluster,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Deploy a PCG cluster through Palette. The PCG will propagate the image registry configuration to the workload cluster,
```

Reviewer: Not sure about this one, but if we mean deploying a PCG cluster, then would be good to be explicit :)

   and the cluster will use the custom image registry to pull images if specified in the mirror registry configuration.

5. SSH into one of the workload cluster nodes. You can verify the image registry configuration on the workload cluster

>    by checking the containerd configuration file. Use the following command to check the containerd configuration file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   by checking the configuration file you provided. Use the following command to check the configuration file.
```

Reviewer: I'm not sure if _containerd_ meant contained or had something to do with containers, so please verify this 😅

Author: It's a term 😄

   ```shell
   cat /etc/containerd/config.toml
   ```

   Each mirror registry specified in the `MIRROR_REGISTRIES` parameter is added to the

>    `plugins."io.containerd.grpc.v1.cri".registry.mirrors.` section. Using the example configuration from earlier, the
>    containerd configuration file should contain the following configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   `plugins."io.containerd.grpc.v1.cri".registry.mirrors.` section. Based on the example configuration we provided in step four, the
  configuration file should contain the following details.
```

The image registry configuration is applied to the PCG cluster and is used to pull the required images for the PCG
cluster.

## Prerequisites

Before overriding the image registry configuration for a PCG, ensure you have the following:

- An active PCG cluster. Refer to [Deploy a PCG](../deploy-pcg/deploy-pcg.md) to learn how to deploy a PCG.

- Access to the kubeconfig file for the PCG cluster. You need the kubeconfig file to access the PCG cluster and apply
  the image registry configuration.

  :::tip

  You can download the kubeconfig file from the PCG cluster details page in Palette. Navigate to the PCG cluster details
  page. Click on the **Admin Kubeconfig** link to download the kubeconfig file. If you need help with configuring
  kubectl to access the PCG cluster, refer to the [Access Cluster with CLI](../../cluster-management/palette-webctl.md)
  guide.

  :::

- Access to a terminal session that has network access to the PCG cluster.

- The kubectl command-line tool installed on your local machine. Refer to the
  [kubectl installation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/) guide to learn how to install kubectl.

> - If you are in airgap environment, you must have the image-swap Helm chart available in your airgap environment. You

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you are in an airgap environment, you must have the image-swap Helm chart available there. You
```

>   can get access to the image swap Helm chart by contacting the support team at

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  can get access to the image-swap Helm chart by contacting the support team at
```

  [support@spectrocloud.com](mailto:support@spectrocloud.com)

> - If you are in a airgap environment, ensure [Helm](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/) is installed on your local

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you are in an airgap environment, ensure [Helm](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/) is installed on your local
```

>   machine.

Reviewer: Should this one go before the image-swap one? 🤔

   | `username`           | The username to authenticate with the custom image registry. If the custom image registry does not require authentication, you can leave this field empty.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | No       |
   | `baseContentPath`    | The base path of the custom image registry.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | Yes      |

>    | `insecureSkipVerify` | Set to `true` if the custom image registry uses an insecure connection or self-signed certificate. Set to `false` if the custom image registry uses a secure connection.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | Yes      |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   | `insecureSkipVerify` | Set to `true` if the custom image registry uses an insecure connection or a self-signed certificate. Set to `false` if the custom image registry uses a secure connection.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | Yes      |
```

>    | `caCert`             | The Certificate Authority of the custom image registry in PEM format. Required if the custom image registry uses a self-signed certificate.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | No       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   | `caCert`             | The Certificate Authority of the custom image registry in the PEM format. Required if the custom image registry uses a self-signed certificate.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | No       |
```

>    | `mirrorRegistries`   | [image swap format](https://github.com/phenixblue/imageswap-webhook/blob/master/docs/configuration.md) to use for pulling images. For example: `docker.io::harbor.example.org/airgap-images/docker.io,gcr.io::harbor.example.org/airgap-images/gcr.io,ghcr.io::harbor.example.org/airgap-images/ghcr.io,k8s.gcr.io::harbor.example.org/airgap-images/gcr.io,registry.k8s.io::harbor.example.org/airgap-images/k8s.io,quay.io::harbor.example.org/airgap-images/quay.io,us-east1-docker.pkg.dev::harbor.example.org/airgap-images` | Yes      |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   | `mirrorRegistries`   | [image swap format](https://github.com/phenixblue/imageswap-webhook/blob/master/docs/configuration.md) for pulling images. For example: `docker.io::harbor.example.org/airgap-images/docker.io,gcr.io::harbor.example.org/airgap-images/gcr.io,ghcr.io::harbor.example.org/airgap-images/ghcr.io,k8s.gcr.io::harbor.example.org/airgap-images/gcr.io,registry.k8s.io::harbor.example.org/airgap-images/k8s.io,quay.io::harbor.example.org/airgap-images/quay.io,us-east1-docker.pkg.dev::harbor.example.org/airgap-images` | Yes      |
```

     imageSwapConfig:
       isEKSCluster: true #If the Cluster you are trying to install is EKS cluster set value to true else set to false

     ociImageRegistry:
       endpoint: "harbor.example.org" #<Contact Spectro Cloud Sales for More info>
       name: "Internal Registry" #<Contact Spectro Cloud Sales for More info>
       password: "" #<Contact Spectro Cloud Sales for More info>
       username: "" #<Contact Spectro Cloud Sales for More info>
       baseContentPath: "airgap-images" #<Contact Spectro Cloud Sales for More info>
       insecureSkipVerify: false
       caCert: ""
       mirrorRegistries: "docker.io::harbor.example.org/airgap-images/docker.io,gcr.io::harbor.example.org/airgap-images/gcr.io,ghcr.io::harbor.example.org/airgap-images/ghcr.io,k8s.gcr.io::harbor.example.org/airgap-images/gcr.io,registry.k8s.io::harbor.example.org/airgap-images/k8s.io,quay.io::harbor.example.org/airgap-images/quay.io,us-east1-docker.pkg.dev::harbor.example.org/airgap-images"
   ```

    </details>

5. Once you have configured the `ociImageRegistry` section, issue the following command from the folder where you have

>    the image swap Helm chart available to deploy the image swap Helm chart. You may have to modify the command below

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   the image-swap Helm chart available to deploy the image-swap Helm chart. You may have to modify the command below
```

   REVISION: 1
   TEST SUITE: None
   ```

6. Create an empty YAML file with the name **registry-secret.yaml**. Use the following command to create the file.

   ```shell
   touch registry-secret.yaml
   ```

7. Open the **registry-secret.yaml** file and copy the placeholder configuration below.

   ```yaml
    ---
    apiVersion: v1
    stringData:
      DOMAIN: "REPLACE_WITH_CUSTOM_REGISTRY_DOMAIN"
      BASE_PATH: "REPLACE_WITH_CUSTOM_REGISTRY_BASE_PATH"
      USERNAME: "REPLACE_WITH_CUSTOM_REGISTRY_USERNAME"
      PASSWORD: "REPLACE_WITH_CUSTOM_REGISTRY_PASSWORD"
      INSECURE: "false"
      CA_CERT: "REPLACE_WITH_CUSTOM_REGISTRY_CA_CERT"
      MIRROR_REGISTRIES: REPLACE_WITH_CUSTOM_REGISTRY_MIRROR_REGISTRIES
    kind: Secret
    metadata:
      name: registry-info
      namespace: jet-system
    type: Opaque
    ---
   ```

   :::warning

   Do not change the `kind`, `metadata` and `type` fields in the YAML file. The values provided in the placeholder
   configuration are required to override the image registry configuration for the PCG cluster.

   :::

8. Replace the placeholder values with the actual values for your custom image registry. Use the same values that you

>    used in the `ociImageRegistry` section of the **values.yaml** file for the image swap Helm chart. Refer to the table

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   used in the `ociImageRegistry` section of the **values.yaml** file for the image-swap Helm chart. Refer to the table
```
